AzurePortal/4_DevOps/0_deployment-pipelines/README.md, before:

# Microsoft Fabric: Deployment Pipelines - Overview

Costa Rica

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/--181717?logo=github&logoColor=ffffff)](https://github.com/)
[brown9804](https://github.com/brown9804)

Last updated: 2025-10-09

------------------------------------------

> Lakehouse Schema and Deployment Pipelines 


<details>
<summary><b> List of References </b> (Click to expand)</summary>

- [Table deletes, updates, and merges - DeltaTables](https://docs.delta.io/latest/delta-update.html#-merge-in-streaming)
- [DeltaLake - DeltaTables Releases](https://github.com/delta-io/delta/releases)
- [DeltaTable execute() example](https://github.com/delta-io/delta/blob/master/examples/python/quickstart.py#L50-L56)
- [Create deployment rules](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/create-rules?tabs=new)
- [Notebook source control and deployment](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-engineering/notebook-source-control-deployment)
- [Fabric: Understand the deployment process](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/understand-the-deployment-process)
- [Incremental refresh in Dataflow Gen2 - Microsoft Fabric](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-factory/dataflow-gen2-incremental-refresh)
- [Dataflow Gen2 refresh - Microsoft Fabric](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-factory/dataflow-gen2-refresh)
- [Announcing Public Preview: Incremental Refresh in Dataflow Gen2](https://blog.fabric.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/announcing-public-preview-incremental-refresh-in-dataflows-gen2/)
- [Choose the best Fabric CI/CD workflow option for you](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/cicd/manage-deployment)

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Table of Contents</b> (Click to expand)</summary>

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Demo](#demo)
    - [Create a Workspace](#create-a-workspace)
    - [Create a Lakehouse](#create-a-lakehouse)
    - [Create a New Semantic Model](#create-a-new-semantic-model)
    - [Auto-Generate Report with Copilot](#auto-generate-report-with-copilot)
    - [Create a Deployment Pipeline](#create-a-deployment-pipeline)
    - [Deploy to Production](#deploy-to-production)
- [How to refresh the data](#how-to-refresh-the-data)


</details>

## Overview

> [!Note]
> `Ownership and Deployment`: In Microsoft Fabric, only the owner of an artifact can deploy it. Non-owner admins do not have the permissions to deploy artifacts. You can create a service principal to act like an owner, allowing it to deploy artifacts on behalf of the actual owner. This ensures that deployment tasks can be automated and managed efficiently without compromising security. <br/> <br/>
> `Deployment Rules for Notebooks and Pipelines`: You can add `deployment rules` for notebooks and pipelines in Microsoft Fabric. Deployment rules `can be configured to manage different stages (development, test, production)` and to change content settings during deployment. For notebooks, you can set rules to specify the default lakehouse, which helps avoid manual changes to source and destination references post-deployment.

Process Overview:

1. **Pipeline Structure**: You define the deployment pipeline structure, which typically includes stages like development, test, and production. Each stage can have its own workspace.
2. **Adding Content**: Content can be added to a pipeline stage by assigning a workspace or deploying content from one stage to another. When you deploy content, Microsoft Fabric copies the metadata, reports, dashboards, and semantic models to the target stage.
3. **Content Cloning**: During deployment, the content from the source stage is cloned to the target stage. This includes the structure and semantic models but `not the actual data` within the tables. This means that while the structure and connections are maintained, the data itself needs to be refreshed or reloaded in the new stage.
4. **Autobinding**: Microsoft Fabric tries to maintain connections between items during deployment. For example, if a report is connected to a semantic model, this connection is preserved in the target stage.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> `Specifics for Lakehouse:` For lakehouses, the deployment process typically `includes the structure and metadata but not the actual data tables`. This is why you might see the structure and semantic models deployed, but the tables themselves need to be manually refreshed or reloaded in the target environment.<br/> <br/>
> `Deployment Rules:` You can set deployment rules to manage different stages and change content settings during deployment. For example, you can specify default lakehouses for notebooks to avoid manual changes post-deployment.

## Demo 

### Create a Workspace

1. Navigate to the Microsoft Fabric portal.
2. Click on `Create a new workspace`.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/58069226-12c5-43ca-9c0f-4f95d6d2a556" />

3. Name your workspace (e.g., `Analytics Dev`).

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/97bf47a4-00d8-4acc-af85-2fc52793a8f5" />

4. Ensure that your workspace is allocated to the appropriate Fabric Capacity:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0cf11e09-dbc1-470a-9a77-6dbc279a5242" />

5. You can repeat this same process to create the production environment. You may host your workspace in the same capacity or in a different Fabric Capacity. Name your workspace (e.g., `Analytics Prod`).

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1ba0f05c-1900-46e1-b4cc-3e0acb9fdd6a" />

    | Dev Workspace | Prod Workspace |
    | --- | --- |
    |       <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0cf11e09-dbc1-470a-9a77-6dbc279a5242" /> | <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/927fc744-940d-4074-9576-1246f33c4f25" /> |

### Create a Lakehouse

1. Within your new workspace, select `New item` and choose `Lakehouse`.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c391ccc3-408a-4a38-979c-acbe2fc65818" />

2. Name your lakehouse (e.g., `Sales_Data_Lakehouse`).

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a69d3f63-4286-4368-8515-d0383b63b09c" />

3. Click on `Get data`, and `Upload files`:

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e3dd716c-7391-4a03-9ff2-4f8722fd29bf" />

4. Load data into the tables:

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a28a5540-106e-4fa2-b515-88831fa96b8d" />

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b543a1c8-6686-484e-a9a9-f372c53262f0" />

5. The information loaded will be under Tables/dbo section, if you are using the lakehouse schema:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0b3da49f-2738-412a-8b9d-bb0f2433d181" />

### Create a New Semantic Model

1. Use the `New semantic model` option to create a Power BI semantic model.
2. Select specific tables and views from your lakehouse.
3. Save the semantic model to your workspace for sharing, data modeling, and reporting.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/25bda38f-41fa-45f9-aa01-e647d9f4bd84" />

4. At this point, you should see something similar like following: 

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1f88782-ddc6-4fb8-947a-af23b92a8415" />


### Auto-Generate Report with Copilot

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure you have the necessary permissions and settings enabled for Copilot to access and use your data.

1. Use Copilot to create a report based on your dataset. In your workspace, click on `...` over your semantic model and select `Auto-create report`:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19718d27-7385-45a8-8aeb-2a6409490c61">

2. The outcome will depend on the information you provide in this case. Copilot automatically generated this report for me; you can continue editing:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9f4bdd42-8ac5-43ea-9af9-32828b59b4a7" />

3. Remember to click on `Save`:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/097a90e0-e131-4205-ad9c-241e34b0206b" />

### Create a Deployment Pipeline

1. Go back to the Microsoft Fabric portal and select `Deployment Pipelines`.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/507fe86a-8710-407e-ae31-5597371b9945" />

2. Create a new pipeline and name it (e.g., `Dev to Prod Pipeline`).

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/52681609-c66d-445c-a387-ff1989f0bf53" />

3. You can customize your stages. For this case, we will only have a development workspace and a production workspace:
  
    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1836520a-7b70-4a12-a8af-5a78e29c95ab" />

4. Add your `Analytics Dev` workspace as the source, click on `Assign a workspace`:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/df0291f4-84a0-46f3-83aa-3dc6aa99ef07" />

5. Add the `Production Workspace` as the target.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/082614ba-4d9a-4a2a-a0c2-a3287366ee75" />

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf39af09-2fda-4d49-958b-d68b87a300c6" />

### Deploy to Production

1. Use the deployment pipeline to move your lakehouse, dataset, and report from the `Analytics Dev` to the `Analytics Prod` workspace.

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0492b8a4-3d7c-4d27-9bfc-a4996e6f3c3e" />

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f99211f2-a60c-414d-a1a0-9135c2fd5879" />

2. Verify that everything is working correctly in the production environment.

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/46045fa8-34e8-4fff-a343-d49f36eece89" />

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc139a2c-3f59-4534-8378-55fe929d33b2" />

## How to refresh the data

> To ensure that data is refreshed and reloaded in the new stage of your deployment in Microsoft Fabric, you can use the following methods:

| **Type of Refresh**       | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | **Details**                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Scheduled Refresh**     | Automatically refreshes data at specified intervals to keep it up-to-date. This allows you to automatically refresh the data at specified intervals, ensuring that the data in the new stage is always up-to-date.                                                                                                                                                          | - Can be configured to run multiple times a day.<br>- Ensures data in the new stage is always current.                                                                                                                             |
| **On-Demand Refresh**     | Allows immediate data refresh, triggered manually or programmatically.                                                                                                                                                              | - Can be done through workspace list or lineage views.<br>- Can be triggered via a pipeline containing a dataflow activity.                                                                                                        |
| **Incremental Refresh**   | Refreshes only the data that has changed since the last refresh, improving efficiency. Click [here to understand more about incremental refresh](https://github.com/brown9804/MicrosoftCloudEssentialsHub/blob/main/0_Azure/2_AzureAnalytics/0_Fabric/demos/11_PBi_IncreRefresh.md)                                                                                                                                       | - **Evaluate Changes**: Checks for changes in the data source based on a DateTime column.<br>- **Retrieve Data**: Only changed data is retrieved and loaded.<br>- **Replace Data**: Updated data is processed and replaced.       |

Steps to Set Up Incremental Refresh:
1. **Create or Open a Dataflow**: Start by creating a new Dataflow Gen2 or opening an existing one.
2. **Configure the Query**: Ensure your query includes a DateTime column that can be used to filter the data.
3. **Enable Incremental Refresh**: Right-click the query and select Incremental Refresh. Configure the settings, such as the DateTime column and the time range for data extraction.
4. **Publish the Dataflow**: Once configured, publish the dataflow. The dataflow will then automatically refresh the data incrementally based on the settings.

<!-- START BADGE -->
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Total%20views-1418-limegreen" alt="Total views">
  <p>Refresh Date: 2025-10-09</p>
</div>
<!-- END BADGE -->

Commit message:

Enhance README with deployment pipeline details
Updated README.md to include detailed deployment pipeline information and references.

AzurePortal/4_DevOps/0_deployment-pipelines/README.md, after:

# Microsoft Fabric: Deployment Pipelines - Overview

Costa Rica

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/--181717?logo=github&logoColor=ffffff)](https://github.com/)
[brown9804](https://github.com/brown9804)

Last updated: 2025-10-09

------------------------------------------

> Lakehouse Schema and Deployment Pipelines 

<details>
<summary><b> List of References </b> (Click to expand)</summary>

- [Introduction to deployment pipelines](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/intro-to-deployment-pipelines?tabs=new-ui)
- [Table deletes, updates, and merges - DeltaTables](https://docs.delta.io/latest/delta-update.html#-merge-in-streaming)
- [DeltaLake - DeltaTables Releases](https://github.com/delta-io/delta/releases)
- [DeltaTable execute() example](https://github.com/delta-io/delta/blob/master/examples/python/quickstart.py#L50-L56)
- [Create deployment rules](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/create-rules?tabs=new)
- [Notebook source control and deployment](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-engineering/notebook-source-control-deployment)
- [Fabric: Understand the deployment process](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/understand-the-deployment-process)
- [Incremental refresh in Dataflow Gen2 - Microsoft Fabric](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-factory/dataflow-gen2-incremental-refresh)
- [Dataflow Gen2 refresh - Microsoft Fabric](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-factory/dataflow-gen2-refresh)
- [Announcing Public Preview: Incremental Refresh in Dataflow Gen2](https://blog.fabric.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/announcing-public-preview-incremental-refresh-in-dataflows-gen2/)
- [Choose the best Fabric CI/CD workflow option for you](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/cicd/manage-deployment)

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Table of Contents</b> (Click to expand)</summary>

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Demo](#demo)
    - [Create a Workspace](#create-a-workspace)
    - [Create a Lakehouse](#create-a-lakehouse)
    - [Create a New Semantic Model](#create-a-new-semantic-model)
    - [Auto-Generate Report with Copilot](#auto-generate-report-with-copilot)
    - [Create a Deployment Pipeline](#create-a-deployment-pipeline)
    - [Deploy to Production](#deploy-to-production)
- [How to refresh the data](#how-to-refresh-the-data)

</details>

## Overview

> [!Note]
> `Ownership and Deployment`: In Microsoft Fabric, only the owner of an artifact can deploy it. Non-owner admins do not have the permissions to deploy artifacts. You can create a service principal to act like an owner, allowing it to deploy artifacts on behalf of the actual owner. This ensures that deployment tasks can be automated and managed efficiently without compromising security. <br/> <br/>
> `Deployment Rules for Notebooks and Pipelines`: You can add `deployment rules` for notebooks and pipelines in Microsoft Fabric. Deployment rules `can be configured to manage different stages (development, test, production)` and to change content settings during deployment. For notebooks, you can set rules to specify the default lakehouse, which helps avoid manual changes to source and destination references post-deployment.

Process Overview:

1. **Pipeline Structure**: You define the deployment pipeline structure, which typically includes stages like development, test, and production. Each stage can have its own workspace.
2. **Adding Content**: Content can be added to a pipeline stage by assigning a workspace or deploying content from one stage to another. When you deploy content, Microsoft Fabric copies the metadata, reports, dashboards, and semantic models to the target stage.
3. **Content Cloning**: During deployment, the content from the source stage is cloned to the target stage. This includes the structure and semantic models but `not the actual data` within the tables. This means that while the structure and connections are maintained, the data itself needs to be refreshed or reloaded in the new stage.
4. **Autobinding**: Microsoft Fabric tries to maintain connections between items during deployment. For example, if a report is connected to a semantic model, this connection is preserved in the target stage.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> `Specifics for Lakehouse:` For lakehouses, the deployment process typically `includes the structure and metadata but not the actual data tables`. This is why you might see the structure and semantic models deployed, but the tables themselves need to be manually refreshed or reloaded in the target environment.<br/> <br/>
> `Deployment Rules:` You can set deployment rules to manage different stages and change content settings during deployment. For example, you can specify default lakehouses for notebooks to avoid manual changes post-deployment.

## Demo 

> Deployment pipelines actually move between stages (e.g Dev → Test → Prod), and what they leave behind:

| **Item Type**               | **Deployed**                                                                 | **Not Deployed**                                  | **Technical Notes & Background** |
|----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| **Reports (.pbix)**        | Report structure, visuals, filters, layout                                  | Cached data in visuals (requires refresh)         | PBIX files are deployed as metadata. Data visuals will show stale or blank until semantic model is refreshed in target stage. |
| **Dashboards**             | Dashboard layout, tiles, links                                               | Live data behind tiles                            | Tiles linked to reports or semantic models require those sources to be refreshed separately. |
| **Semantic Models**        | Model schema, tables, relationships, measures, DAX expressions               | Imported or cached data                           | Semantic models are deployed without data. You must trigger a refresh post-deployment to populate tables. |
| **Dataflows Gen2**         | Power Query M scripts, transformations, source definitions                   | Output tables or files                            | Dataflows are metadata-only. They define how data is ingested but do not carry the ingested data itself. |
| **Notebooks**              | Notebook content, markdown, code cells                                       | Execution outputs, charts, dataframes             | Notebooks are deployed as-is. Any outputs (e.g., charts, tables) must be re-executed in the target environment. |
| **Lakehouse**              | Table definitions, folder structure, metadata                                | Parquet/CSV files, actual data                    | Lakehouse metadata is deployed, but files stored in OneLake are not copied. Use shortcuts or external pipelines for data movement. |
| **Warehouse**              | Table schema, column definitions, relationships                              | Table rows and data                               | Warehouses are metadata-only in deployment. You need separate ETL or data movement to populate tables. |
| **Spark Job Definitions**  | Job configuration, code, parameters                                           | Execution logs, output datasets                   | Spark jobs are deployed as code artifacts. Outputs must be regenerated in the target stage. |
| **Machine Learning Models**| Training configuration, metadata, experiment setup                           | Trained weights (unless embedded)                 | If models are stored externally (e.g., Azure ML), only references are deployed. Embedded models may carry weights. |
| **Event Streams**          | Stream schema, input/output definitions, transformations                     | Live streaming data                               | Event stream definitions are deployed, but no data is transferred. You must reconnect sources in target stage. |
| **KQL Databases**          | Table schema, KQL queries, dashboards                                        | Query results, ingested data                      | KQL metadata is deployed. Data ingestion must be reconfigured or re-triggered in the target stage. |
| **SQL/Cosmos Databases**   | Connection metadata, linked service definitions                              | Actual database content                           | Connections are deployed, but no data is moved. You must ensure target DB access and sync separately. |
| **Paginated Reports**      | Report layout, RDL file, parameters                                           | Cached data, query results                        | Paginated reports are metadata-only. They require semantic model refresh or DB connectivity in target stage. |
| **Org Apps**               | App structure, navigation, linked content                                    | Underlying data in linked items                   | Apps are wrappers. They deploy links to items, not the data itself. All linked content must be refreshed independently. |

### Create a Workspace

1. Navigate to the Microsoft Fabric portal.
2. Click on `Create a new workspace`.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/58069226-12c5-43ca-9c0f-4f95d6d2a556" />

3. Name your workspace (e.g., `Analytics Dev`).

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/97bf47a4-00d8-4acc-af85-2fc52793a8f5" />

4. Ensure that your workspace is allocated to the appropriate Fabric Capacity:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0cf11e09-dbc1-470a-9a77-6dbc279a5242" />

5. You can repeat this same process to create the production environment. You may host your workspace in the same capacity or in a different Fabric Capacity. Name your workspace (e.g., `Analytics Prod`).

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1ba0f05c-1900-46e1-b4cc-3e0acb9fdd6a" />

    | Dev Workspace | Prod Workspace |
    | --- | --- |
    |       <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0cf11e09-dbc1-470a-9a77-6dbc279a5242" /> | <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/927fc744-940d-4074-9576-1246f33c4f25" /> |

### Create a Lakehouse

1. Within your new workspace, select `New item` and choose `Lakehouse`.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c391ccc3-408a-4a38-979c-acbe2fc65818" />

2. Name your lakehouse (e.g., `Sales_Data_Lakehouse`).

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a69d3f63-4286-4368-8515-d0383b63b09c" />

3. Click on `Get data`, and `Upload files`:

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e3dd716c-7391-4a03-9ff2-4f8722fd29bf" />

4. Load data into the tables:

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a28a5540-106e-4fa2-b515-88831fa96b8d" />

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b543a1c8-6686-484e-a9a9-f372c53262f0" />

5. The information loaded will be under Tables/dbo section, if you are using the lakehouse schema:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0b3da49f-2738-412a-8b9d-bb0f2433d181" />

### Create a New Semantic Model

1. Use the `New semantic model` option to create a Power BI semantic model.
2. Select specific tables and views from your lakehouse.
3. Save the semantic model to your workspace for sharing, data modeling, and reporting.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/25bda38f-41fa-45f9-aa01-e647d9f4bd84" />

4. At this point, you should see something similar like following: 

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1f88782-ddc6-4fb8-947a-af23b92a8415" />


### Auto-Generate Report with Copilot

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure you have the necessary permissions and settings enabled for Copilot to access and use your data.

1. Use Copilot to create a report based on your dataset. In your workspace, click on `...` over your semantic model and select `Auto-create report`:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19718d27-7385-45a8-8aeb-2a6409490c61">

2. The outcome will depend on the information you provide in this case. Copilot automatically generated this report for me; you can continue editing:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9f4bdd42-8ac5-43ea-9af9-32828b59b4a7" />

3. Remember to click on `Save`:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/097a90e0-e131-4205-ad9c-241e34b0206b" />

### Create a Deployment Pipeline

1. Go back to the Microsoft Fabric portal and select `Deployment Pipelines`.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/507fe86a-8710-407e-ae31-5597371b9945" />

2. Create a new pipeline and name it (e.g., `Dev to Prod Pipeline`).

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/52681609-c66d-445c-a387-ff1989f0bf53" />

3. You can customize your stages. For this case, we will only have a development workspace and a production workspace:
  
    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1836520a-7b70-4a12-a8af-5a78e29c95ab" />

4. Add your `Analytics Dev` workspace as the source, click on `Assign a workspace`:

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/df0291f4-84a0-46f3-83aa-3dc6aa99ef07" />

5. Add the `Production Workspace` as the target.

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/082614ba-4d9a-4a2a-a0c2-a3287366ee75" />

    <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf39af09-2fda-4d49-958b-d68b87a300c6" />

### Deploy to Production

1. Use the deployment pipeline to move your lakehouse, dataset, and report from the `Analytics Dev` to the `Analytics Prod` workspace.

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0492b8a4-3d7c-4d27-9bfc-a4996e6f3c3e" />

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f99211f2-a60c-414d-a1a0-9135c2fd5879" />

2. Verify that everything is working correctly in the production environment.

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/46045fa8-34e8-4fff-a343-d49f36eece89" />

   <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc139a2c-3f59-4534-8378-55fe929d33b2" />

## How to refresh the data

> To ensure that data is refreshed and reloaded in the new stage of your deployment in Microsoft Fabric, you can use the following methods:

| **Type of Refresh**       | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | **Details**                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Scheduled Refresh**     | Automatically refreshes data at specified intervals to keep it up-to-date. This allows you to automatically refresh the data at specified intervals, ensuring that the data in the new stage is always up-to-date.                                                                                                                                                          | - Can be configured to run multiple times a day.<br>- Ensures data in the new stage is always current.                                                                                                                             |
| **On-Demand Refresh**     | Allows immediate data refresh, triggered manually or programmatically.                                                                                                                                                              | - Can be done through workspace list or lineage views.<br>- Can be triggered via a pipeline containing a dataflow activity.                                                                                                        |
| **Incremental Refresh**   | Refreshes only the data that has changed since the last refresh, improving efficiency. Click [here to understand more about incremental refresh](https://github.com/brown9804/MicrosoftCloudEssentialsHub/blob/main/0_Azure/2_AzureAnalytics/0_Fabric/demos/11_PBi_IncreRefresh.md)                                                                                                                                       | - **Evaluate Changes**: Checks for changes in the data source based on a DateTime column.<br>- **Retrieve Data**: Only changed data is retrieved and loaded.<br>- **Replace Data**: Updated data is processed and replaced.       |

Steps to Set Up Incremental Refresh:
1. **Create or Open a Dataflow**: Start by creating a new Dataflow Gen2 or opening an existing one.
2. **Configure the Query**: Ensure your query includes a DateTime column that can be used to filter the data.
3. **Enable Incremental Refresh**: Right-click the query and select Incremental Refresh. Configure the settings, such as the DateTime column and the time range for data extraction.
4. **Publish the Dataflow**: Once configured, publish the dataflow. The dataflow will then automatically refresh the data incrementally based on the settings.

<!-- START BADGE -->
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Total%20views-1418-limegreen" alt="Total views">
  <p>Refresh Date: 2025-10-09</p>
</div>
<!-- END BADGE -->
